---
title:   "Why"
bg:      andro-blue-li
color:   black
style:   justify
fa-icon: question
---

**1. Why can't I send content from android device to my browser?**

Sendroid provides only one way communication - from your browser to your android device. To provide two-way communication, your data (Sendroid registration ID, whatever you want to share etc) must be stored in some third party server, even for a moment. Sendroid is designed with the goal of being simple and non-intrusive. If you need two-way commnucation, use apps like Airdroid, Pushbullet etc.


**2. What are the advantage of using Sendroid over Airdroid, Pushbullet etc?**

* It's simple. You don't even have to open the app after initial configuration.
* It doesn't store your data. Doesn't ask you to login.
* No spamming. You receive only what you share from your browser.
* You can download images and share them directly from the notification. No need to open the app.
* You can set your favorite sharing app. No need to choose every time you want to share something.


**3. If Sendroid doesn't store my data, why does it need access to your accounts?**

Sendroid uses Google cloud messaging (GCM) service to send contents from your browser to your android device. To use this service, Google needs a activ google account in android device to create the unique registration ID. Sendroid doesn't have access to this data.


**4. So my data will be stored in Google cloud server?**

Yes. But Sendroid doesn't have access to this data. Sendroid browser extension just sends your data to GCM server and Sendroid android app receives it from the server. By default, Sendroid instructs GCM server to store the data for 1 minute (in case the target android device is offline). After that GCM server removes the data.


**5. Why does Sendroid needs so many permissions for Android?**

* INTERNET - For obvious reasons.
* GET_ACCOUNTS - Already explained in point 3.
* WAKE_LOCK - This permission is required so that Sendroid can receive messages even if your phone is locked.
* ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE - To check whether network is available before downloading image.
* WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE - To save the downloaded image in Sendroid directory.
* READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE - To check whether Sendroid directory exists.
