---
title:   "Why"
bg:      andro-blue-li
color:   black
style:   justify
fa-icon: question
---

<a name="#two-way">
**1. Why can't I send content from android device to my browser?**
</a>

Sendroid provides only one way communication - from your browser to your android device. To provide two-way communication, your data (Sendroid registration ID, whatever you want to share etc) must be stored in some third party server, even for a moment. Sendroid is designed with the goal of being simple and non-intrusive. If you need two-way commnucation, use apps like Airdroid, Pushbullet etc.

<br/>
<br/>
<a name="#advantage">
**2. What are the advantage of using Sendroid over Airdroid, Pushbullet etc?**
</a>

* It's simple. You don't even have to open the app after initial configuration.
* It doesn't store your data. Doesn't ask you to login.
* No spamming. You receive only what you share from your browser.
* You can download images and share them directly from the notification. No need to open the app.
* You can set your favorite sharing app. No need to choose every time you want to share something.

<br/>
<br/>
<a name="#accounts">
**3. If Sendroid doesn't store my data, why does it need access to my accounts?**
</a>

Sendroid uses Google cloud messaging (GCM) service to send contents from your browser to your android device. To provide this service, Google needs a active google account in android device to create the unique registration ID. Sendroid doesn't have access to this information. If you are not satisfied with the explanation have a look at the source code ([Sendroid on Git](https://github.com/Atekihcan/Sendroid/tree/master/Sendroid_Android)).

<br/>
<br/>
<a name="gcm-server">
**4. So my data will be stored in Google cloud server?**
</a>

For a minute, Yes. But Sendroid doesn't have access to this server. Sendroid browser extension just sends your data to GCM server and Sendroid android app receives it from the server. By default, Sendroid instructs GCM server to store the data for 1 minute (in case the target android device is offline). After that GCM server deletes the data.

<br/>
<br/>
<a name="permissions">
**5. Why does Sendroid needs so many permissions for Android?**
</a>

* **Identity**
    * *Find accounts on the device* - Already explained in point 3.

* **Photos/Media/Files**
	* *Modify or delete the contents of your USB storage* to save downloaded images.
	* *Test access to protected storage* to create Sendroid directory for storing downloaded images.

* **Other**
	* *Receive data from Internet* to receive contents sent from your PC browser.
	* *Full network access* to download images.
	* *Prevent device from sleeping* to receive messages even if your phone is locked.
	* *View network connections* to check whether network is available before downloading image.

<br/>
<br/>
<a name="download-failed">
**6. I'm not able to download images. Why?**
</a>

There might be various reasons why you are not able to download images. Some of the possible reasons are described below but almost in all cases you will have to cancel the download and send the image link from your browser again.

* If it is because you are not connected to the internet or Sendroid cannot access the storage of your device, this will be shown in the notification.
* If some other error occurs, Sendroid will update notification saying download failed.
* If the image downlaod notification continuously shows "Starting download..." or "Connecting..." then either your network is very slow or the server where the image is hosted might be busy. Ideally the download should start if wait for some time. If it doesn't, cancel the download and send the image link from your browser again.
